See, I'll be your convener for this unit.
NOTE CONF
Uh, this is a 2nd year faculty unit, meaning that
there's a range of engineering students, so, uh, you'll probably
NOTE CONF
get to know them in your tutorial.
Um, they range between, you know, civil engineering, biomed, software,
NOTE CONF
so there is a rather low hurdle of understanding or
expectation on what coding skills you may need, um.
NOTE CONF
This unit is about applying some of those machine learning
approaches to solving your own um problems within your discipline.
NOTE CONF
So I would say that you have to be cognizant
of bringing in some of your disciplines specific challenges, right,
NOTE CONF
um, into the mix during one of our projects that
will be conducted from week 8 onwards.
NOTE CONF
Um, so here's the, here's my email address.
Now, the way this unit runs, uh, you know, since
NOTE CONF
we actually opened it up, there has been an influx
of students, so we are running a total of 7
NOTE CONF
classes, 7 tutorial classes.
By now you should be allocated to one of those
NOTE CONF
7 tutorials.
I know some of you guys have clashes, so if
NOTE CONF
you have any issues, That is unresolved, email me, uh,
unfortunately I need to forward that email to the timetabling
NOTE CONF
group for you, for them to actually put you into
like, you know, In front of the queue, so to
NOTE CONF
speak, but if there's any sort of uh changes, uh,
please make sure that you make those changes this week
NOTE CONF
on Allocate, um, you know, rather than just showing up
to a class because now that you know where and
NOTE CONF
when things are running, um, make sure you update the
system so then people who's on the waiting list can
NOTE CONF
then be uh allocated, right?
Um, our tutors, we have 2467 tutors.
NOTE CONF
So these are, their addresses, um, email address.
So the way we run the units, we tend to
NOTE CONF
have a sort of more interactions with, um, with different
tutors.
NOTE CONF
So make sure if you have any questions, go to
the ed board, discussion board that is, or ask your
NOTE CONF
tutors during your, um, during your tutorial.
That's the best way to do it.
NOTE CONF
So today, um we are obviously in York, but then
from week 4 and 8 onwards, we're actually in the
NOTE CONF
Jason um lecture hall, so just make sure you note
that down, you know, on that day when you come
NOTE CONF
in here, I think there's a biomed.
Lecture, so you'll, you'll realise that, you know, very soon
NOTE CONF
when you sit down, nothing makes sense, um, you know,
go to the Everest.
NOTE CONF
But basically, I think the, the lecture should be recorded,
um, as indicated with the red light here.
NOTE CONF
Um, yeah, but, you know, by all means, turn up
to class because, and I'm talking to the other 300
NOTE CONF
students who are not here, um, the best way is
really to interact in this environment, um.
NOTE CONF
You know, we'll have some menti survey, menty metres survey,
so just to get you guys engaging with the content.
NOTE CONF
Obviously you'll have your tutorials as well, and then from
that point onwards, um, you know, the more you interact
NOTE CONF
with the unit, the the better.
Um, I know that anyone nowadays can just go on
NOTE CONF
Google and search and read, but so is the library,
right, library sits there.
NOTE CONF
Um, not a lot of people go and visit and
read the books.
NOTE CONF
So understand that, you know, part of your whole learning
journey is to interact with others, right?
NOTE CONF
Um, you know, during the COVID days, everyone complains how
there's lack of interaction, and yet, after COVID, right, when
NOTE CONF
we get given the chance, we sort of don't, Don't
really embrace that.
NOTE CONF
So, um, that's the, that's the approach we would like
to have within this, uh, unit.
NOTE CONF
Now, the seating arrangement, obviously, um, there's a cap to
the different classes.
NOTE CONF
Uh, the biggest class is your Thursday class in the
end, in the PNR building.
NOTE CONF
So that is, um, if you haven't already been there,
it's this funky interactive, uh, tutorial space with curtains and
NOTE CONF
whatnot, um.
You know, you, you'll probably get to engage in that
NOTE CONF
environment.
I've noticed that from previous years, um, during those sessions,
NOTE CONF
right?
A lot of students, they kinda congregate into the corners,
NOTE CONF
right?
But if you also move yourself into the middle, and
NOTE CONF
I think our tutors will support that as well, uh,
there's a bit of a, you know, more of an
NOTE CONF
interacting, uh, space as well.
OK, so, um, all the information you need is on
NOTE CONF
Canvas page, so you probably saw me clicking through the
canvas page, uh, I will periodically update that page, um,
NOTE CONF
just because, you know, some of this information we want
it to be delivered in a sort of sequential scaffolded
NOTE CONF
manner.
Um, there's no point in delivering everything in one go.
NOTE CONF
You know, there's no difference to just pointing you to
a library and say, go, go to that section and
NOTE CONF
read all those books.
So we'll progressively put out information, just make sure that
NOTE CONF
you check up on, you know, for example, today, there
is a tutorial, um, so I do believe there's 40
NOTE CONF
or at least 80 students potentially, um, who would need
to, you know, go to their classes.
NOTE CONF
So I've just released the, Tutorial questions um this morning.
And in terms of like the first class, um, really
NOTE CONF
it's just getting you guys geared up to setting up
the environment, um knowing, revising on the basic commands, um,
NOTE CONF
on how to use Python, how do you apply some
of those um data, data sort of, Interaction using NumPy,
NOTE CONF
etc.
um, if there's any question, we would ask you to
NOTE CONF
post it on discussion page.
Uh, our tutors are constantly monitoring it, so am I.
NOTE CONF
So then, you know, on a very timely basis, we
can, we can answer your questions and queries that way.
NOTE CONF
Um, other students I do believe may be able to
answer some of those questions, May or may not, I
NOTE CONF
need to double check the settings.
So if you obviously know some of those answers, by
NOTE CONF
all means jump on board, right?
Again, we want this social interaction, we learn as social
NOTE CONF
beings, so make sure that is the case.
And as I already mentioned, ask your tutor during your,
NOTE CONF
during your tutorials and email them if you, if you
have any issues, especially for those students who are in
NOTE CONF
that class and, you know, need to start off at
5.
NOTE CONF
There's no point in emailing some random tutor in a
different class when they're not really even.
NOTE CONF
And present in your class.
So make sure you capture their name, right?
NOTE CONF
I've seen so many times, student after 12 weeks of
interaction, they don't know the tutors' names, which is really
NOTE CONF
weird, like, what have you been doing, right?
So, you know, like with any sort of social interaction,
NOTE CONF
uh, get to know the name, call them by their
names, right?
NOTE CONF
If you call me by Nick or you shout, Nick,
you know, down the park, I'll properly look around and
NOTE CONF
see what's happening, OK?
I didn't actually mention, um, I'm also running the PET
NOTE CONF
units, so some of your, maybe not the 2nd years,
2nd year is uh run by Tom Goldfinch.
NOTE CONF
Um, the first year, PET units, uh, I'm looking after
that, and part of that sort of training is to
NOTE CONF
skill you up on transferable skills.
Alright, so part of your training with university is to
NOTE CONF
develop those social interacting skills.
I, I know and I recall that.
NOTE CONF
You know, back in the days when I was like
a science engineering student, I basically hardly interact with people
NOTE CONF
just because it doesn't feel familiar.
But you'll realise very soon, if you go into a
NOTE CONF
workplace, um, there's basic social interaction that is required, even
with people that you don't know.
NOTE CONF
Right?
So that's the, the scary thing.
NOTE CONF
And, and believe me or not, right?
Everyone's in the same camp as you, so the quicker
NOTE CONF
you break that habit by saying, hey, you know, what's
your name?
NOTE CONF
I'm Nick, la, right, and then people feel at ease.
So you could be the person to bring them at
NOTE CONF
ease by doing those um interactions and social interactions, right?
OK, expectations of students.
NOTE CONF
Alright, so, um, tutorials is mandatory, um, unless there's a
very, um, special, uh, exceptional circumstance, so do not schedule
NOTE CONF
your part-time job during that, obviously.
I've noticed that in the, in the last year's running,
NOTE CONF
a lot of students upon sort of doing the, the
um project work, they just disappear.
NOTE CONF
Like they, they, they just don't show up, right, completely
ghosted.
NOTE CONF
Um, I don't really understand why.
Um, part of that particular phase of the project is
NOTE CONF
to update your teammates during class, update your tutor, get
the feedback, get the help, get the assistance.
NOTE CONF
Um, so, you know, we want to encourage you to
learn based on your own sort of desire to, for
NOTE CONF
knowledge, right?
It's not a policing exercise, you know, less of a
NOTE CONF
compliance exercise.
Um, but we do say that tutorial is mandatory, so
NOTE CONF
make sure you turn up to that.
Um, don't schedule part-time work.
NOTE CONF
Opportunity to ask questions, we mentioned that several times now.
Teamwork, meet at regular times, right?
NOTE CONF
So from week 3 onwards, you'll be forming your team,
and we want 4 members within each team, right, so
NOTE CONF
maybe like, straddling over 2 different um engineering discipline, so
that way, you know, when you're interacting with the actual
NOTE CONF
material like designing a, A machine learning algorithm for a
given set of problems, it could be this hybrid problem,
NOTE CONF
right, for example, Imagine, you know, software engineering, working with
civil engineering in trying to design a machine learning algorithm
NOTE CONF
to understand workplace, um, behaviours, right, so that's a social
problem, right, it has a social ramification to the solution,
NOTE CONF
um, and obviously, you know, you then need to go
and find data sets and then we'll we'll teach you
NOTE CONF
how to do that bit.
And then apply some of the machine learning algos that
NOTE CONF
um we talked about.
So, yep, keep that going, right, so from week 3
NOTE CONF
onwards, you'll be forming a team and I don't think
we release the um well we expect you to have
NOTE CONF
a draught of the proposal until week 6 or near
the break week.
NOTE CONF
um, but basically after the break you are expected to
start work.
NOTE CONF
On it.
So, week 3 formation, then we have a bunch of,
NOTE CONF
you know, brainstorming processes, and then you have to come
up with a solid proposal, right?
NOTE CONF
And we'll ask you to write that up, uh, submit
that before the break, and then from break onwards you're
NOTE CONF
working on that.
Keep it at regular momentum, I've put up a team
NOTE CONF
canvas which I'll show you later on how do you
effectively form groups and teams, right?
NOTE CONF
There's a subtlety between group work and teamwork.
Purely one is just independent work where people will just
NOTE CONF
come and congregate and just work.
The other is everyone's result is interdependent on everyone else's
NOTE CONF
results, right, so there's a lot more.
Teamwork, like, yeah, I mean, can't think of a better
NOTE CONF
word than that, but interaction between the members and reliance
on each other.
NOTE CONF
Um, so meet at regular times, keep the momentum going,
don't let them down, right?
NOTE CONF
Um, everyone should be contributing to the programming and reporting.
So I know that because, you know, we talk about
NOTE CONF
skill set and strength and weaknesses, some members are better
skilled and sort of gifted in the coding sense, um,
NOTE CONF
but do not let that person take on all the,
all the roles and duties.
NOTE CONF
Um, you know, part of this unit is to be
able to apply some of the basic coding, so then
NOTE CONF
when you're working your 3rd, 4th year projects, you can
apply that same skills across.
NOTE CONF
Um, but you know, coding is now like basic literacy,
right?
NOTE CONF
Just like internet literacy, digital device literacy, feedback literacy, you
know, coding is a is a literacy.
NOTE CONF
Um, 2 people doing the coding whenever waiting write up,
um, it's not fair, so make sure there's a fair
NOTE CONF
division of labour, right?
Just because there's a report and also the need for
NOTE CONF
code development does not preclude the people writing the report
on just writing report, you know, they should also be
NOTE CONF
coding and vice versa, right?
Um, you know, if you don't get this self group
NOTE CONF
dynamic, you will learn that, you know, people and members
will have.
NOTE CONF
Resentment in the whole process and that will not lead
to a good outcome, OK?
NOTE CONF
Submit the work on time, do not pile up.
Uh, despite how many times I mentioned this thing, there
NOTE CONF
is always some sort of delay, right?
Like, you know, it is due on Sunday, and then
NOTE CONF
for some strange reason, for a week and a half,
no one works on it, and then Friday evening, one
NOTE CONF
or two members, you know, frantically emails the whole team.
And go, Where's my report?
NOTE CONF
15 minutes later, where's this section?
5 minutes later, you know, what's happening?
NOTE CONF
Like, it's Friday night.
What do you expect, right?
NOTE CONF
Or Saturday, right?
So, just because it's your urgency doesn't make it more
NOTE CONF
important in someone else's camp.
Just be very mindful of that.
NOTE CONF
Scaffold your work, make sure that, look, you've got 2
weeks, every 3 days, update someone on this channel.
NOTE CONF
It's all formalised, there's a clear expectation.
That is the whole process of being a professional, right?
NOTE CONF
Don't assume, just say it, right, oh, so can I
expect this to be due at this time?
NOTE CONF
Yes, no, I cannot, I'm working, you know, let people
know what you're thinking.
NOTE CONF
OK, um, you can do better with more time obviously
as with anything, but have a bit of a urgency
NOTE CONF
in getting the action happening, right?
So I like this quote and I probably misquoting it,
NOTE CONF
but just have them, Have an urgency for action, but
have the patience for result, right?
NOTE CONF
If you need to get the process started now, by
sending an email, do that, right, you may not get
NOTE CONF
the result yet, but at least people who are, you
know, you're emailing it the way that this needs to
NOTE CONF
happen.
Don't just delay things and then lead to the former
NOTE CONF
situation I've mentioned.
Um, as a good engineer, I think you should all
NOTE CONF
try to practise and, um, put this whole concept of
minimum fireable product into your mindset.
NOTE CONF
I know minimumfiable product typically comes from the software domain,
but as we can see, like the world is moving
NOTE CONF
at a super rapid pace.
Even hardware development, you're moving towards this MVP concept.
NOTE CONF
So what this concept really entails is that every single
point, It's a working product, right?
NOTE CONF
It's a working simplified solution.
So imagine, right, we're designing a car.
NOTE CONF
I wouldn't actually give you a car on day one,
I may give you a bike, or maybe just a
NOTE CONF
boat with two wheels, 3 wheels or 4 wheels, right?
A skateboard.
NOTE CONF
But at least at that point, you can travel from
point A to point B, right?
NOTE CONF
It achieves the aim of the game, which is maybe
a vehicle from point A to point B.
NOTE CONF
In much the same way when you're designing these machine
learning models, you know, you could come up with this
NOTE CONF
very complicated pipeline solving the problem.
But it takes many different steps.
NOTE CONF
So maybe the first step is just to categorise A
and B.
NOTE CONF
And then from that point you can go, well, is
there any subclass to A and B?
NOTE CONF
What happens if there's a different stream of data set
coming in, right?
NOTE CONF
Can I now segregate this and still deliver some sort
of solution, may not have the highest accuracy, but at
NOTE CONF
least it is a solution.
So, When you're writing things up, don't don't leave half
NOTE CONF
dangling paragraphs, right?
I know when you're writing, you go, all right, here's
NOTE CONF
the framework for the report.
You know, here's the title, that's just great, because if
NOTE CONF
I read this thing, then at least I can see
a half form report with the general gist of the,
NOTE CONF
of the whole thing.
But then I may progressively fill in the different sections
NOTE CONF
with more and more and more information, right?
So this is what I mean by MVP approach to
NOTE CONF
all your work.
Now you could also do that with your studies as
NOTE CONF
well.
So, you know, start off with high level mind mapping
NOTE CONF
of a of a unit of a course, progressively fill
in more and more details, at some point you may
NOTE CONF
go through a derivation of a of a solution, you
know, have more case studies and so forth.
NOTE CONF
All right, so many times I've mentioned this now, interact
with your tutors, um, talk to us, talk to your
NOTE CONF
neighbours, you know, introduce yourself to, to whoever you're sitting
next to.
NOTE CONF
Um, and so, collectively, we can now learn about, you
know, how does machine learning apply to my field, and
NOTE CONF
I'll do, I'll do a little survey later just to
see the spread and the and the different types of
NOTE CONF
students we have here.
Um, basic consideration in putting machine learning, right, as a,
NOTE CONF
as a approach, um, to solving engineering problems.
So I know this would have been thrown around many
NOTE CONF
times now, but I don't think we have actually discussed
what that actually means, right?
NOTE CONF
Um, introducing key artificial intelligence concepts, um, in the first
eight weeks because from week 9 onwards we do not
NOTE CONF
have lectures, so that will give you more time to
work on your project.
NOTE CONF
Um, demonstrate that machine learning uh data-driven methods are instrumental
in many of these engineering domains.
NOTE CONF
So, You know, if anyone follows F1, does anyone follow
F1?
NOTE CONF
Ends up, yeah, 1 or 2, yeah.
You've noticed how over the years they've captured more and
NOTE CONF
more and more data, right, in optimising the, the actual
design of the, of the chassis and whatnot, right?
NOTE CONF
So this is one of those examples where, The more
data you have in a in a sort of well
NOTE CONF
represented way, right, leads to rapid improvement and changes in
the game, literally, right.
NOTE CONF
Um, we will be using Python and Pyic Learn and
many of those common libraries to implement your, um, machine
NOTE CONF
learning pipeline, so.
You know, just familiarise yourself on that if you don't
NOTE CONF
already know, there's a lot of documentation, heaps of videos
out there, uh, and we will also mention, uh how
NOTE CONF
you can use Gen AI to help you with learning.
So before we start, let's just go and do a
NOTE CONF
um mentee survey, so we can have a bit of
a understanding on who we're dealing with here, right, as
NOTE CONF
a cohort.
So, if you could just log in to, to this
NOTE CONF
website.
Um Minte I think I have to enable on my
NOTE CONF
side, right?
Does it work?
NOTE CONF
Yes, no.
Then just shout it out.
NOTE CONF
Oh, OK.
You result This presentation is resolved.
NOTE CONF
OK, great.
Um, Can you guys see, does, does it work?
NOTE CONF
No.
Yes.
NOTE CONF
Present oh present here go.
So the first question should be what discipline you're studying,
NOTE CONF
right?
Say what?
NOTE CONF
You guys got the question?
Yeah, I can't, I don't know how to show you
NOTE CONF
what I'm seeing.
Prato, do you know how, yeah, yeah.
NOTE CONF
Maybe I have to log out.
Everyone's got the QR code, right?
NOTE CONF
Yes?
OK, I am gonna switch screen.
NOTE CONF
Uh, Correct, because we haven't captured.
There's like 60 people here and there is about.
NOTE CONF
Uh, 60 responses.
I'll obviously put up this um information in our slide
NOTE CONF
deck.
Is there a quick way of doing the alteration?
NOTE CONF
Let's open the link.
636-714-95.
NOTE CONF
I just came from there and it was short.
OK, alright, here you go.
NOTE CONF
So we have uh quite a bit uh from Aerospace,
um biomed or here, that's good.
NOTE CONF
Obviously there's like, you know, a good 75% of the
class missing, so I do not know what's up.
NOTE CONF
Yeah, they're not, they're not here, are they?
I mean, we're supposed to have 400.
NOTE CONF
Why is there no, OK, right, I get your point,
um, others, others will be that.
NOTE CONF
Good point.
I'm properly uh have to change this light soon.
NOTE CONF
Alright, so I think if I move on to the
next slide, you should get a new question.
NOTE CONF
Yeah.
So this is just to sort of get a good
NOTE CONF
understanding on what's your level of machine learning understanding.
So I can try and tailor some of those examples
NOTE CONF
that we, we will talk about in class to the
different various discipline.
NOTE CONF
I now know there's megatronics involved, so I will put
a lot of that, um.
NOTE CONF
Alright, so everyone's heard of uh machine learning, that's great.
Generative AI, OK, but don't really understand what they do
NOTE CONF
for real.
Right.
NOTE CONF
I mean, if anyone's followed like the, the stock market,
you know, you can, you'll realise that in the last
NOTE CONF
couple of weeks with some of those um new AI
en AI sort of software from China, you know, basically
NOTE CONF
tanked the market for a bit, so.
It's everywhere, it's now sort of at this exponential growth
NOTE CONF
stage, I would say.
Now, there's overpromises obviously with any technology, much like 3D
NOTE CONF
printing.
You know, 15 years ago.
NOTE CONF
Um, but no doubt it will be integrated rather rapidly
into our fabrics soon, so.
NOTE CONF
Um, OK, basic learning, um, machine learning, how it's used.
2.9, some hands-on with developing, but mostly not so much,
NOTE CONF
so that would be a new revelation, you'll probably know
and learn a lot of the approaches that will streamline
NOTE CONF
your workflow as a student, as a graduate, uh engineer
and whatnot.
NOTE CONF
OK.
So next question.
NOTE CONF
What do you hope to get from this course?
You wanna just um master the technical skills, practical application,
NOTE CONF
career advancement, you're actually into the research of things.
Um, bare minimum, I just want to do the bare
NOTE CONF
minimum to pass this unit.
Alright, it's good expectation setting, right?
NOTE CONF
Since he's anonymous, right, it's, it's fine to say that.
Um, just here for the grades, getting the marks not
NOTE CONF
necessarily the knowledge, yeah, OK.
Alright, we'll make sure you guys get, get what you
NOTE CONF
want, you know, just the pass.
None of the distinct.
NOTE CONF
Um, AI domination, wow, we've got some high achievers here.
Yeah.
NOTE CONF
Yeah, so, so there's a lot of practical work in
in this unit, um, through the projects, through the actual
NOTE CONF
week to week quizzes and um tutorials as well.
So that should cater for that group of students.
NOTE CONF
So you know, like using this information, I'll try to
integrate it into our into our course as the data
NOTE CONF
set, and um there's actually a different link later that
I'll try and get us all collectively to go out
NOTE CONF
and collect some data, so in the absence of any
data set, we will at least have our own little
NOTE CONF
survey data set that you can extrapolate and think about
what problem it could solve, what sort of interesting, um,
NOTE CONF
Machine learning apps you can develop, right, but I'll I'll
show you that in a bit.
NOTE CONF
Uh, I don't know why.
OK, right, yeah.
NOTE CONF
You should see a bunch of questions, right?
So there should be 3 questions, briefly for you too.
NOTE CONF
Answer, um, what social activity?
You know, you like to do hang out spots?
NOTE CONF
Do you enjoy the most?
Um, could be at the pub.
NOTE CONF
I love the pop.
Pump is like a great little plays with white noise
NOTE CONF
and just interesting people flowing through, much like the airport,
I think.
NOTE CONF
I'm not sure if um this is a workout, but
try and have anyone submitted anything yet?
NOTE CONF
Typing OK.
Hope that you actually collect things.
NOTE CONF
Um, on average, how, how much do you, how much
do you spend each month, right, so spending patterns, right,
NOTE CONF
this could be an interesting data set again for, Understanding
student collectively, maybe like, you know, representative engineering students spending
NOTE CONF
patterns, where they hang out, we could then create like
interesting events later down the track at the end of
NOTE CONF
the unit, so those are, those are why we're doing
some of these social experiment bits.
NOTE CONF
And then finally I do day off, uh, and so
forth.
NOTE CONF
So Mm.
80, is that 80 response?
NOTE CONF
81 responses.
So maybe like I'll give another 1 or 2 minutes.
NOTE CONF
Explore responses in more detail.
Should be, should be all right, yeah.
NOTE CONF
OK.
I'll move on.
NOTE CONF
OK, and then that's, that's it.
Let's see if we can see the results.
NOTE CONF
Yeah, I'll probably have to process this, um, later.
OK, cool, alright.
NOTE CONF
We have some good baselining.
Um, this is the Google form that I was mentioning.
NOTE CONF
Uh, if you could maybe circulate this, and we will
see by week 3 if we have enough data, not
NOTE CONF
just within this unit, um, but also for the campus,
right?
NOTE CONF
So I will try to uh uphold my side with.
With maybe some sort of gift voucher.
NOTE CONF
Um, but basically, it's asking you questions like what's your
interest, you know, if you can create a social club,
NOTE CONF
what, what's happening, you know, pretty much the same question
as before, maybe some of the hopes and dreams, just
NOTE CONF
to understand baseline again, collectively, if there could be a
vision, right?
NOTE CONF
Um.
What's one assumption you may recently hope but have challenged
NOTE CONF
it since, OK?
Uh, what's your definition of funds, social courses, motivation, small
NOTE CONF
step you can take each week.
So obviously there's a very open ended question, um, nothing
NOTE CONF
specifically related to this unit just yet.
But I think this is a good interesting data set
NOTE CONF
that we can explore again in the absence of any
interesting data data set that you wanna later work on.
NOTE CONF
OK, so you should be able to answer this, maybe
answer this later, um, and circulate it to your friends,
NOTE CONF
to whoever that is representative, um, of, of a sort
of university population, um, obviously we do not know if
NOTE CONF
there's random people signing on as well.
But I don't think that is too big of an
NOTE CONF
issue.
Um, What happened to my nose?
NOTE CONF
OK.
Alright, so, um, there's a lot of housekeeping obviously just
NOTE CONF
for week one's lecture, so, you know, pardon me for
repeating many things, but hopefully this will get branded into
NOTE CONF
your um into your brains and you know, when, when
it comes to actual teamwork, we won't see missing members,
NOTE CONF
we won't see people just disgruntled, being resentful and whatnot.
Now tutorials is a point for you to ask your
NOTE CONF
tutors to upskill on your coding abilities.
I know from the survey that not a lot of
NOTE CONF
you guys have, um, has in-depth knowledge on applying some
of the coding, um, just yet because, you know, there's
NOTE CONF
only a fraction of people who are in software, ComSci,
who mainly deals with coding, um, the others you, you
NOTE CONF
would have been maybe based on your interests or from
your high school days, right?
NOTE CONF
But basically your tutorial is to then ask those questions
and then when you're applying for your own machine learning
NOTE CONF
project, there'll be varying different approaches, right, because some people
may be doing a CNN, um, you know, machine learning
NOTE CONF
model where others are just doing a naive-based categorical, um,
you know, splitting or regression, um, approach, so, you know,
NOTE CONF
I think you need to, You know, revise on those
skills and just understand if you don't know where to
NOTE CONF
find the information, how to then find the information.
Week 3, we will form the groups, I will put
NOTE CONF
up, your tutors will in fact create those uh patelets,
uh, on canvas and then within your class, you'll put
NOTE CONF
your name down and then form those groups.
It will be a bit um chaotic at the beginning,
NOTE CONF
but obviously that's part of the fun.
Um, the more you can lean in chaos, I would
NOTE CONF
say, you will learn this over your next 1015 years
of career.
NOTE CONF
Um, as long as you have a directional goal, maybe
a pathway to there can be less fixed.
NOTE CONF
OK, so that is something that you guys can, you
know, bear in mind, just be remembered, um, reminded that,
NOTE CONF
you know, this sounds like really weird, but hey, let's
just, let's just roll with it, right?
NOTE CONF
So we'll get you to form in groups of 4,
student defined projects utilising machine learning to solve an engineering
NOTE CONF
problem that you have to bring into the, into the
mix, so.
NOTE CONF
Between between the four of you guys, um, discuss on
a problem.
NOTE CONF
Now in the past, right, past being last year, I've
noticed that students just go for the lowest hanging fruit,
NOTE CONF
which is typically what we suggest on the slide saying,
hey, these are some of the examples, medical imaging, oh,
NOTE CONF
yep, let's just do that.
You know, environmental, um, sustainability project looking at where tree
NOTE CONF
grows, you know, yep, let's just do that.
So it's not very creative in that sense, right, I
NOTE CONF
want you to start bringing in your own agency in
going, hey, I'm really passionate about, I don't know, homeless.
NOTE CONF
Homeless food outlet or whatever, right, can we find some
public data set to find like, you know, effluent suburbs
NOTE CONF
crossing over with highest homeless, you know.
Bits and pieces and bring together something, right?
NOTE CONF
I don't know, you can, you can bring in your
own mix and flavours.
NOTE CONF
Um, my ultimate hope is to be able to get
one of your solutions and make it into reality, right,
NOTE CONF
as a part of the collective, we've got 400+ brains
here.
NOTE CONF
Right, I, I, I doubt that within 13 weeks there
cannot be one single viable solution that we could take
NOTE CONF
to the council and say, hey, you know, our student
group has done this preliminary data analysis.
NOTE CONF
We just need more legitimate data to fit into this
model, and we could, we could deliver this solution to
NOTE CONF
solve your community problem, right?
That's the ultimate pitch.
NOTE CONF
Um, whether or not we'll get to it this year,
um, question, but.
NOTE CONF
You know, it's really depending on everyone here.
Um, societal pieces, yeah, I mentioned this.
NOTE CONF
Is it able to be commercialised?
Um, part of my personal interest is entrepreneurship.
NOTE CONF
I think the world may in general be a better
place if there's more people working on solving problems, um,
NOTE CONF
you know, and not fearing the fear of failure.
Um, I know that there's a certain societal piece.
NOTE CONF
And maybe a personality piece, but you can imagine a
world where society generally underwrites failures, right?
NOTE CONF
And then the person who has a strong passion in
a certain area would apply their skills and their talents
NOTE CONF
into trying to make it a better place.
So, that's my general personal um ethos.
NOTE CONF
Whether or not it's yours, you know, you can either
be inspired or not, I guess.
NOTE CONF
But either way, um, you know, one of the things
that we want to think about is how impactful are
NOTE CONF
the work to the larger group.
So, trying to find a problem that is a societal
NOTE CONF
problem, right, and then seeing if there's a, Business case
around it.
NOTE CONF
Now business case need not to always be financial sort
of monetary exchange.
NOTE CONF
Obviously, that's a denomination that people use to assess and
evaluate, you know, how viable a business is.
NOTE CONF
But you can imagine, you know, in, in a, in
a world where there is this philanthropy sort of money
NOTE CONF
contributing to a cause.
And your product, right, would fit in between that, right?
NOTE CONF
Your product is really trying to solve a problem, but
you need to build a financial or business model around
NOTE CONF
that.
So this is something that we'll be talking about, um,
NOTE CONF
just, you know, on the sideline, as you write up
your project, what is the commercialization opportunity, how would you
NOTE CONF
best pitch this to potential customers and so forth.
We've mentioned the team management issue, um, we'll give you
NOTE CONF
this tool called Team Canvas.
Uh, Team Canvas is basically just a canvas where you
NOTE CONF
talk about basic expectation between your members.
Alright, so that's uh that's quite key.
NOTE CONF
Um, It is more than technical, right?
Unfortunately, it takes a lot of hours to practise and
NOTE CONF
hone those team building skills.
I mean, how quickly can you ramp up is a
NOTE CONF
question.
If I put you in a room, right, 4 people
NOTE CONF
in a, in a group situation, how quickly can you
walk out of that room feeling that, yeah, you know,
NOTE CONF
I can work well with these people, or, you know,
in 2 hours' time you're still not really sure what
NOTE CONF
that guy's name cause I couldn't pronounce his name.
Or her name, you know, that's a, that's a legitimate
NOTE CONF
thing.
I often do that.
NOTE CONF
I go into a room and go, yeah, hey, hey,
hey, but then, oh, I'm not really sure what's your
NOTE CONF
actual name, right, so we want you to actually feel
a buy in into that team, um, and then from
NOTE CONF
that point onwards, Apply the frameworks that will, will get
you will get you to use, to brainstorm, find the
NOTE CONF
hidden opportunities for learning, not just in the technical front,
but also soft skills, framing the problem, developing your, um,
NOTE CONF
presentation and oral skills.
Um, I will have to emphasise the presentation aspect, um,
NOTE CONF
because in the past I've seen a lot of people,
a lot of presentation groups, They tell you the chronological
NOTE CONF
events, right?
We got the dataset, we applied this, we did this,
NOTE CONF
then we did that, and then we did this, and
then this is the result.
NOTE CONF
But not often do you hear, this is the impact
of our result, and this is how we achieved it,
NOTE CONF
which is a very flipped approach to presentation.
So that's something that we'll work on collectively, on how
NOTE CONF
to present with impact rather than present what you just
did.
NOTE CONF
Um, and you know, at what point do you put
in more technical information, so then a layperson would then
NOTE CONF
understand, right?
Um, often we just like, Drop in a lot of
NOTE CONF
technical terms and then lose people on the way, um,
so they don't really come on this journey with us.
NOTE CONF
So make sure you know that is not the case
um during your presentation.
NOTE CONF
OK, so there are some assessments and tasks for you
to complete, um, they should all be represented in the
NOTE CONF
unit guide as well as on the canvas page.
Um, there's a certain split of percentages, but if you,
NOTE CONF
if you contribute and go to all the tutorials, complete
the quizzes, there's only 4 quizzes in total, plus 8
NOTE CONF
in tutorial coding quiz of 5.
the rest is just presentation and also, Um, the proposals,
NOTE CONF
right, and so, and the final thing would be to
write a reflection.
NOTE CONF
Now in any of the group works, I've highlighted the
group section, you'll be asked to do this Spark plus,
NOTE CONF
um, team evaluation.
So have anyone used Spark Plus before?
NOTE CONF
Yeah, OK.
So you know that it's more than just a tool
NOTE CONF
for you to write, you know, what's the score I
give to this member, right?
NOTE CONF
It is a tool for you to give feedback, so
then someone else can look at the feedback and go,
NOTE CONF
oh, maybe this is something I can improve.
So we don't really focus on the formative elements, but
NOTE CONF
just be sure that, you know, when we ask you
to write the thing, you write it, then subsequently, you
NOTE CONF
go back and reveal your own given feedback.
So feedback literacy is something that is um not very
NOTE CONF
well done, um and it's an opportunity for you to
learn.
NOTE CONF
Make sure you go through that.
Yep.
NOTE CONF
Uh, I hate to say I've repeated this a lot
with the formation.
NOTE CONF
Um, yeah, it's just moved to this team canvas.
So here's the link for the Team Canvas.
NOTE CONF
This is an online, uh, whiteboard, mirror.
Um, they have a template called Team Canvas, and we
NOTE CONF
will advise you to philtre that out, um, and especially
the communication part, right?
NOTE CONF
How you expect your team to function.
You know, before a, um, if you say, OK, uh,
NOTE CONF
default communication is Facebook Messengers, then everyone should be checking
that all the time.
NOTE CONF
Or it could be email, right?
I would recommend some sort of slack group or maybe
NOTE CONF
Discord group, a bit more real-time, uh, push notification.
Um, you can obviously use email and, uh, in the
NOTE CONF
professional world, it is expected to use email as a
main form.
NOTE CONF
Um, even though there's like Microsoft Teams and things like
that.
NOTE CONF
So for those who are studying and doing the tutorial
today, um, part of that whole process will be to
NOTE CONF
get you to install all the packages, the IDEs, um,
the development environments, um, and also just all the packages
NOTE CONF
related.
Now for you, um, You know, who don't have a
NOTE CONF
computing hardware that is capable of coding and machine learning
and sort of training those models, you can use Google
NOTE CONF
uh cola, but just note that you have to save
all your outputs and inputs in your folder, which is
NOTE CONF
Google Drive, before and after each run.
Um, they will clear the cache every so often, right?
NOTE CONF
Like you have maybe 6 hours.
After they run the instructions, they will clear it and
NOTE CONF
then free up the computer again.
Um, but basically that's a, that's a nice way, if
NOTE CONF
you wanted to learn like scaffold stuff on your MacBook
Air in class, then you can run the heavy duty
NOTE CONF
stuff online and then pull, pull the data back down,
you know, use that as a training ground for your
NOTE CONF
models.
And finally, uh, I'll probably talk a bit about Gen
NOTE CONF
AI because there's a bit of a change to how
Gen AI is being adopted at Sydney Uni.
NOTE CONF
Um, not sure if you've heard, but since last year,
uh, we have changed to lane 1, lane 2 assessment.
NOTE CONF
Now, that's obviously for the lane 1, lane 2 assessment
part.
NOTE CONF
But for you as a learner, not really, you know,
specifically learning for assessment, although there was a fraction of
NOTE CONF
people who just wants to get the marks and, and
be done with it.
NOTE CONF
Um, we encourage you to use Gen AI as a,
as a tool, right, as a tool to help you
NOTE CONF
understand the content a bit better.
What this software, you know, enables you to do is,
NOTE CONF
Probabilistically, answer your question, right, I stress on that fact
because it is a probabilistic language model.
NOTE CONF
It does hallucinate and it depends on how well you
prompt it.
NOTE CONF
So, even if you use a well, you know, constructed
prompt, you could get most of the explanation correctly sort
NOTE CONF
of repackaged into something that you are more accustomed to.
So if you wanted to learn about, you know, Bayesians,
NOTE CONF
Theorems and based in statistics, using your own given um
interest, for example, I don't know, soccer games or something,
NOTE CONF
right?
If you're, if you wanted to get that direct sort
NOTE CONF
of interpretation, you can use this tool to, to really
help with that understanding.
NOTE CONF
Um, we can't actually stop you from using this tool
to generate some of your reporting, unfortunately.
NOTE CONF
But just be very sure that when you're re-reading those
and editing those reports, right?
NOTE CONF
Read it and and correct anything add in any of
the, um, specific information that is required.
NOTE CONF
Very often when we get Gen AI to generate a
report as a whole report, it skips over a lot
NOTE CONF
of details.
And as a, as a marker, as a grader, we
NOTE CONF
can see that very clearly.
So, you know, this is the first step to your
NOTE CONF
draught, but then after that point, you can refine it.
Um, being able to prop properly is, is a skill
NOTE CONF
now.
It's again one of those literacy skills.
NOTE CONF
And just avoid the illusion of competency, right?
Um, Just because you can Google it, just because you
NOTE CONF
can gen AI things, doesn't mean that you understand it.
The second we take away that tool and ask you
NOTE CONF
to explain things, it's gonna be like, oh, I thought
that I actually understood this, but actually I can't say
NOTE CONF
anything about it.
Yeah, no, I don't think that is.
NOTE CONF
Can we use Google for that one?
The coding quiz?
NOTE CONF
Yeah, it's a lockdown, right?
It's one of those lockdown browsers.
NOTE CONF
No.
So in, in, yeah, in the class when you're doing
NOTE CONF
the coding quiz, I think you can refer to the,
um, to the documentation, right, the syntax.
NOTE CONF
But I think those coding quizzes, it's really about the
logic, you know, like if you get the logic distilled,
NOTE CONF
then you can apply the syntax you need, right?
For example, you need to cut this data frame first
NOTE CONF
and then find out the meaning of this and then
do the standardisation and etc.
NOTE CONF
Stop Yeah, people, people try not using stack overflow, it
takes too long to find things, right?
NOTE CONF
It's just kind of GAI this.
But yes, there will be some help with your syntax,
NOTE CONF
but you know, your job here is to understand the,
the logic flow with constructing those um, Those are language
NOTE CONF
model, um, those things.
Algorithms.
NOTE CONF
So obviously there's pros and cons, um, you know, the
speed of getting answers, but obviously it could lead to
NOTE CONF
superficial learning, reducing, eliminating to remember things, right?
But then if you don't remember things, how do you
NOTE CONF
know what you don't know, right, or where do you
find things that you don't know?
NOTE CONF
So I think it's worthwhile to try to be less
reliant on documentations of such and Gen AI as you're
NOTE CONF
going through your project and then slowly, right, you can
just do the thing without those extra tools.
NOTE CONF
Um Training us to ask the right question, I think
as a collective, we don't ask the right questions as
NOTE CONF
much as what you know, we can do better.
So, you know, just because you get an answer doesn't
NOTE CONF
mean the question was correct.
You always get some answers.
NOTE CONF
Um, helping overcome mental blocks.
Structuring it as a conversation back and forth, so then,
NOTE CONF
um you can understand the information a bit more better,
um.
NOTE CONF
Yep.
So the con could be leading you down the wrong
NOTE CONF
path if you hallucinate and you don't sort of self-check.
Um, it can lead to human withdrawal.
NOTE CONF
I don't really think that is completely true.
I mean, maybe socially if you're using it for other,
NOTE CONF
other, you know, reasons instead of learning.
So how will we be enabling you to use uh
NOTE CONF
Gen AI?
So there's many tools, right?
NOTE CONF
There's Google Notebook, Google Notebook LLM is actually quite good,
right, if you get all your information, dump it in
NOTE CONF
there, you can actually create chats and um podcasts with
you.
NOTE CONF
Co-pilot, um, I think we actually have a free subscription.
Gemini Grock, those are some of the new ones um
NOTE CONF
at play as well.
Yeah.
NOTE CONF
So to your question, the, the coding quiz hurdle, right,
can help you start and solve your own problem.
NOTE CONF
Alright, so, to the meat of it all, right, we've
done all the housekeeping, it's taken us unfortunately about 50
NOTE CONF
minutes.
We have a double hour lecture, so every week it's
NOTE CONF
2 hours, but you know, plus or minus.
Half an hour, I guess, maybe not the plus, maybe
NOTE CONF
the minus.
Alright, let's start.
NOTE CONF
So, what is machine learning, right?
These are generally some of the popular understanding, right, what
NOTE CONF
an embodiment of a smart AI, Machine learning system, right?
A fully autonomous robot from Star Wars.
NOTE CONF
You've got a drone that flies and unfortunately kills people
at times.
NOTE CONF
Um, you have a self-driving car, right, that is being
in development.
NOTE CONF
We still haven't achieved, uh, full driving capability, but the
idea is basically a vehicle that takes you from point
NOTE CONF
A to point B, autonomously, you know, understanding all conditions
and whatnot.
NOTE CONF
And then you have the, uh, Boston Dynamic dog, which
does a lot of the surveying things and also checking
NOTE CONF
out, like, um, warehouse inventory and whatnot.
So those are the popular perception, but it need not
NOTE CONF
to always be in a embodiment like this, right?
In fact, if you look at artificial intelligence, the definition
NOTE CONF
of intelligence is simply to be able to take actions
in a desirable outcome that leads to desirable outcome.
NOTE CONF
With a very high probability, um, in some given uncertainty,
right?
NOTE CONF
So you are all here intelligent to some extent, right,
by that definition.
NOTE CONF
Whether or not things are desirable outcome, those are very
objective, and I, I guess objective, um, but you know,
NOTE CONF
it is your job as, Machinist, um, to basically, you
know, train your model so that it does yield a
NOTE CONF
desirable outcome.
The taking action bit is really a human bit at
NOTE CONF
the moment, right?
So machine learning provides the, the recommendation and then it
NOTE CONF
is the person to then subsequently action some of those.
In an autonomous system, those things will be just a
NOTE CONF
streamlined approach.
So that means that in the following system, right, we
NOTE CONF
have artificial intelligence.
You have cruise control in a car, right, which could
NOTE CONF
regulate speed, doing an action.
Um, leading to safety, which is desirable outcome, in uncertain
NOTE CONF
conditions, like, for example, different actual road terrain, maybe there's
a lot of cornering, so it has sensors to determine
NOTE CONF
if, like, you know, there's a lot of bendy bits
or straight bits and, and gravels and whatnot.
NOTE CONF
OK?
So, in that definition, It's artificial intelligence.
NOTE CONF
You have noise cancelling headphones that somewhat sense your environment
and actively adjust the volume.
NOTE CONF
And so, again, desirable outcome.
Power systems, um, power systems that automatically turn off lights,
NOTE CONF
turns on lights, turn on the heat fact, turn off
the heat fact.
NOTE CONF
Um, again, one of those.
Social media recommendation.
NOTE CONF
Uh, I question how desirable outcomes could be.
I mean, it is providing a lot of entertainment, and
NOTE CONF
in a lot of Southeast Asian countries it's providing a
means to leave because they can sell things now on
NOTE CONF
those platforms.
Um, you know, but the recommendation definitely is very interesting
NOTE CONF
because it's taking the action, which is you normally subscribing
to Softfi to then automatically prompt you and go, oh,
NOTE CONF
look, you know, more cat videos.
Oh, now cat video and a dog.
NOTE CONF
You know, cat and an owl.
I mean, we love those little, little pet animals, um,
NOTE CONF
things, and it gives you a soothing sort of, uh,
you know, emotions after checking it out.
NOTE CONF
So it is intelligent by that definition.
And finally, you know, chat GPT, one of those commonly
NOTE CONF
discussed, um, topics.
It is now sort of anticipated that within the next
NOTE CONF
3 years we're gonna hit AGI which is artificial general
intelligence, the ability to sort of, you know, make determinations
NOTE CONF
and provide iterations in thinking processes.
I don't know, this is the hype, right, you know,
NOTE CONF
not being in the actual, G AI field in developing
the algorithms, um, but at this current rate, within the
NOTE CONF
last 24 months, I think we've seen substantial improvement in
those softwares.
NOTE CONF
So who, who knows, maybe it is true.
So in the core of um what is in the
NOTE CONF
core of the Gen AI or AI sorry, um, is
nothing more than just a mapping of inputs and outputs.
NOTE CONF
So it's a black box, right, you're creating a black
box here where you're gonna chuck in a lot of
NOTE CONF
inputs.
This is your data, and then you have some desirable
NOTE CONF
outputs, which is your desirable action.
And through that process, you know, you, you optimise it
NOTE CONF
so then every time you change something, it will give
you a corresponding answers that you first know, and then
NOTE CONF
subsequently to some things that you don't know.
And that's how you sort of really use that.
NOTE CONF
Now, In a, in a human intelligence sense, right, you
have all your inputs being sensory inputs.
NOTE CONF
So all your 5 senses plus and then internally, you
develop this mental model, right, and then subsequently you can
NOTE CONF
interpret events and action appropriately.
In the old ways of AI, no, um, there's a
NOTE CONF
lot of emphasis on making mechanical elements, right?
Being able to control mechanical elements.
NOTE CONF
So, feedback control system is a very origin of where
AI stuff came in, right?
NOTE CONF
You can imagine the first industrial machines with the governor,
right, the spinning governor, that basically takes input, you want
NOTE CONF
a desirable consistent output.
There's a mechanical function that regulates this.
NOTE CONF
So the regulation is really how it all sort of
came about.
NOTE CONF
Um, but nowadays it's uh more computational because we can
downsize things into transistors.
NOTE CONF
We've moved through from the, the actual heart transistors to,
to silicon-based transistors and then the coding software defined aspect
NOTE CONF
enables scaling.
Right.
NOTE CONF
So, um, OK, but the definition of the.
So we we we we're talking a lot about input
NOTE CONF
data and then determining what features we want, right, based
on, based on those input datas, what features we're gonna
NOTE CONF
be training the model on, and then outputting that as
some sort of label, right?
NOTE CONF
label that can then be taken as actions.
This is just uh one example of how we're evolving,
NOTE CONF
I would say, rather than, you know, a full revolution,
right?
NOTE CONF
It is about a slow evolution from something that is
mechanically based to digital based.
NOTE CONF
Um, but again, you know, this is nothing new in
the sense that it all started in the 60s, in
NOTE CONF
the 80s, right?
There's a lot of references to statistical inferences.
NOTE CONF
Where it is based on a collection of input and
then statistically speaking, right, probabilistically speaking, it gives you a
NOTE CONF
certain blah, and then from that you can conclude that
that that output is of high probability, right?
NOTE CONF
So in the abstract field, this is what it is,
input, some model, right, we call this model theatre, um,
NOTE CONF
with all the parameters in there.
And then you have some desirable outcome, right?
NOTE CONF
The critical task here is to find the best value
that can then be trained and generalised, right?
NOTE CONF
So if you overtrain something, this is those one of
those definition things, right, if you take all this data
NOTE CONF
coming in, And you just map it to this really
nice snuck feet curve, you basically overtrain your system, right,
NOTE CONF
unless, You know, the next input coming in fits exactly
on the line, your system will not be able to
NOTE CONF
tell what it's supposed to be doing, right?
So, part of this challenge is to find an optimum
NOTE CONF
value, so then, right, during your training phase, and then
subsequently can be generalised for other situations.
NOTE CONF
So there's generally two types of learning approaches, right?
We have a supervised learning, uh, whereby the input, all
NOTE CONF
the inputs are known, and then all the outputs are
known as well.
NOTE CONF
So it's basically just mapping things, right?
That's not very useful unless you're trying to solve, You
NOTE CONF
know, repeat the same task of, OK, every time I
see an apple, this is the automatic pricing I get,
NOTE CONF
right?
That that's a known and they obviously train what looks
NOTE CONF
like an apple, and then what's the pricing range, and
so forth.
NOTE CONF
Now for an unsupervised uh learning approach, it's really an
unknown to unknown.
NOTE CONF
Right, so you've got, you've got missing information in the,
in the process, so the objective is to discover any
NOTE CONF
patterns, right, so, you know, if you wanted to categorically
put things into different bins, but you don't know what
NOTE CONF
represents what should go into a bin, right?
Uh, I'm talking about like, you know, categorical data beam.
NOTE CONF
Um, you know, you will use an unsupervised approach, um,
where you put in the information and then outcome 4
NOTE CONF
bins, because this is the statistical probability of those data
looking at 4 different types, right?
NOTE CONF
For example.
And then finally, there's a 3rd class of learning.
NOTE CONF
It's called reinforcement learning, um, where you actually tell the
system, you know, if you do this of training, we'll
NOTE CONF
give you a score, and the score could be, you
know, biassed to something.
NOTE CONF
So then it actually improves on itself.
So some sort of scoring function, right?
NOTE CONF
So over the, over the course of these 8 weeks,
we'll talk, uh, Various different range of machine learning model,
NOTE CONF
um, some will be sitting in this supervised environment, some
will be sitting in this unsupervised environment, and, you know,
NOTE CONF
depending on how your personal data set that you bring
into the project, Maybe you'll get to use reinforcement learning
NOTE CONF
to some extent.
Um So I think this is a pretty cool diagram
NOTE CONF
because it actually details the general range of problem sets,
categorical problems that you may face with different challenges, um,
NOTE CONF
and then it actually requires you to use different data,
um, models out there.
NOTE CONF
So we have regression, uh, algorithm, very typically you want
to plot a line, right, an average line of some
NOTE CONF
sort, that's a regression model.
Um, regularisation, you've got, got categorical ones, which is clustering,
NOTE CONF
right, so, the basin uh approaches we'll probably use that
for clustering, um, You know, problem sets, so if you
NOTE CONF
wanted to split A and B, you know, how do
you do that?
NOTE CONF
Concrete example would be looking at a bunch of MRI
data, scans, and then seeing if, if the patient has
NOTE CONF
some sort of cancerous tumour, right?
Because of the pixels and the colours relative to each
NOTE CONF
other, you could maybe see a certain spot, right, that
is representative of cancerous tissues.
NOTE CONF
So it's either yes or no with high conviction.
Right.
NOTE CONF
Decision tree approaches, this is like, you know, a, a,
In its own right, it is a single tree, right,
NOTE CONF
where it's making decision, yes, no, yes, no, binary, yes,
no.
NOTE CONF
But then if you have an ensemble of that, that's
a random forest approach, which then is even more of
NOTE CONF
a black box where you can't really explain how it's
done, but it's, it's done, right?
NOTE CONF
Then you have all the other deep learning approaches, um,
using neural nets and things.
NOTE CONF
So, I've talked a bit about the whole process is
really to find those theatre values, or find the right
NOTE CONF
features, to then yield a model that best describes the
system which can then be generalised.
NOTE CONF
The challenge is obviously the generalising, right?
So you can imagine in those embodied AI, right, a
NOTE CONF
human driver can sit in a, could train a self-driving
car.
NOTE CONF
And then hopefully it will drive itself in the long
run, it's generalizable.
NOTE CONF
Right, C-3PO in Star Wars, um, could help Luke with
training.
NOTE CONF
Obviously that is a very futuristic sci-fi approach, but you
know, it's not that, it's not that distant.
NOTE CONF
We have, we have Tesla creating Optimus, robots that claims
to be able to replace factory workers, right?
NOTE CONF
They're training them in handling information, picking objects up and
then putting them in boxes, so it's generalizable.
NOTE CONF
Google Home re recognising human voices, and then different people
speaking to it somehow it's, it can sense it, it
NOTE CONF
can understand that, you know, this is person A, this
is person B, maybe.
NOTE CONF
Um, but, you know, all the speech patterns is a
trained model that is now generalizable.
NOTE CONF
So the very difference between Um, a traditional engineering approach,
and this new world, machine learning, self-adjusting, uh, approach is
NOTE CONF
that it is self-adjusting, right?
If you train the model properly, you could feed in
NOTE CONF
different inputs and seal your different outputs without having seen
those inputs before.
NOTE CONF
Now that those parameters, if you design it well, it
could actually self adjust as well.
NOTE CONF
So that is something that is rather new, I would
say, um, to, to the whole process.
NOTE CONF
So it fits a lot of real systems where things
aren't linearly mapped, but perhaps, you know, non nonlinear systems.
NOTE CONF
We'll learn a bit more about how do you map
a nonlinear system to something that is a pseudo-linear, because
NOTE CONF
a lot of this work is about thinking about the
representation.
NOTE CONF
You get a data stream.
You represent it in a certain way.
NOTE CONF
It allows you to develop the machine learning model better
because it it picks on certain feature sets than a
NOTE CONF
different representation.
If you don't put this uh practise into, into the
NOTE CONF
whole pipeline, you're gonna get this black box that yields
out gibberish data, right, output.
NOTE CONF
So part of your job is to really design that
pipeline, right?
NOTE CONF
Think about, oh, you know, should this be represented in
a time domain series or a frequency domain series?
NOTE CONF
should I um transform this into something like, You know,
Cartesian coordinates or polar coordinates.
NOTE CONF
Uh, those things actually makes a big difference in how
the machine learning sort of picks up the, the linear,
NOTE CONF
uh, components.
Um, systems, whether they're linear or not, have been traditionally
NOTE CONF
been fixed after the design, um, but, you know, for,
for machine learning, uh, approaches, that may not always be
NOTE CONF
the case.
It is more adaptable, uh, and then your traditional models,
NOTE CONF
which is fixed, um it can self update.
You know, a, if you imagine a, a breach that
NOTE CONF
is, uh, constructed or built using traditional methods, rely on
knowing materials, whereas machine learning approaches can adapt over time
NOTE CONF
and ingest real data.
We've already seen this in the, in the real world,
NOTE CONF
where they're actually putting sensors on breach, um, they are
developing concrete that is self-healing, right?
NOTE CONF
So based on the stress, based on the stress level
on a certain bridge pylon.
NOTE CONF
It could actually create micro stress on it and then
it hardens itself.
NOTE CONF
So that as a whole system is quite intelligent, right?
It doesn't actually have to compute in that bridge, but
NOTE CONF
that's just one example of a self adaptive system.
So machine learning, if done well, right, looks like magic
NOTE CONF
because it could handle complexity without explicit data, but obviously
the whole process going through it, you know, it's, it's
NOTE CONF
starts off sort of, Starts of systematic, but then because
of the chaoticness that is involved in the, in the
NOTE CONF
interconnections, right, to us it looks very chaotic, complex, and
then it can then handle things without explicit formulas.
NOTE CONF
I, I think we're collectively moving away from uh systems
that we can explicitly explain the relationship between um variables
NOTE CONF
to something that we don't really know how the explanation
goes, but we just accept that it can work.
NOTE CONF
That probabilistic model is a bit of a paradigm shift,
and it's all based around statistics obviously.
NOTE CONF
Weather patterns, um, I'm sure you've all seen how Gen
AI has actually greatly assisted with forecast accuracy, apparently using
NOTE CONF
diffusion, uh, networks, um, they are able to fill in
some of the gaps between sort of measured data points
NOTE CONF
and be a bit more accurate in the weather prediction.
Um, You know, that's just one example of unexplainable sort
NOTE CONF
of phenomena emerging properties, but then we accept that it
is actually quite correct.
NOTE CONF
Now, it says, machine learning thrives on high dimensional data
that may and may not be completely true.
NOTE CONF
I mean it does, it does allow for multi-dimensionality, so
basically more than your, your what you can.
NOTE CONF
Imagine as 3 dimension, right?
4 dimensions, sometimes we can imagine that by different colour
NOTE CONF
dots on a chart.
But higher dimensionality data is completely possible with machine learning
NOTE CONF
just because of it's mathematics.
It's just the mathematics representation.
NOTE CONF
Um, machine learning can look for patterns in those higher
dimensional data and then bring that back down.
NOTE CONF
So we will talk about how you can use manifolds,
approaches to solving, um, Problems, right, that you can't necessarily
NOTE CONF
see, right, or accurately just describe, you take it to
a higher dimension, do the processing, bring it back down,
NOTE CONF
then you can see how it separates as a category,
right?
NOTE CONF
You've got other approaches that uses support vector machines and
there's all this of terminology, um.
NOTE CONF
But generally speaking, just because you have high dimensional data
doesn't necessarily mean dumping it more and more those dimensionality
NOTE CONF
is a good thing, right?
Now, what we talk about dimensionality here is like features.
NOTE CONF
If you take a MRI data set, right, you can
cut that into many different ways.
NOTE CONF
Once you take the pixels and put that in a
single line, right.
NOTE CONF
Then it starts looking for things, it starts looking for,
OK, what's a line on this diagram, what's something that
NOTE CONF
looks like a shaded blob, right, and so forth.
So you can put in all these things called features.
NOTE CONF
The more features you dump into it, you know, you
you could actually create a worse model.
NOTE CONF
So there's something called the curse of dimensionality, which doesn't
always translate to better models.
NOTE CONF
So you need to be cognizant of what features to
really pull out what is representative.
NOTE CONF
And then actually make that judgement.
That judgement as a submachine learning um designer, right, it's
NOTE CONF
your job, it's not completely automated, OK?
Sometimes you may actually want to reduce that using principal
NOTE CONF
component analysis.
So there's many different ways of approaching a a um
NOTE CONF
a given problem with a with a range of datas.
Um there's not a formula which is unfortunate.
NOTE CONF
Now, key acceptance, so some of the key rapid development
in machine learning over the last 30 years.
NOTE CONF
We are accepting that.
Sometimes we can't accept, we can't explain how the thing
NOTE CONF
came about, right?
We just accept that it's a probabilistic model.
NOTE CONF
It works.
Um, we can test it, we can stress test this,
NOTE CONF
but then, you know, sometimes we can't just directly say,
oh, because it's looking for this thing, that's why it
NOTE CONF
gives me this label.
The compute power has massively increased since the 90s when
NOTE CONF
it all started.
So neural network, deep learning network are all possible, um,
NOTE CONF
currently because of those massive data centres, the, um, shrinkage
of the, of the actual transistors down to, down to,
NOTE CONF
um, you know, trillions and billions of those transistors in
a very small tiny space.
NOTE CONF
Um, the rise of GPUs, so parallel processing, instead of
serial processing, we know all about that from, Hearing and
NOTE CONF
video and how their their approach to solving problems, um,
becomes the, so the most expensive company in the world.
NOTE CONF
Um, Yeah, and, and the then the transference of that.
So once you have this centralised data system of compute,
NOTE CONF
you can fit in all this data set, train a
model, save the model, distribute the model, right, through the
NOTE CONF
internet and connectivity, and then now every other smaller centres
without the training can access the inferences, right?
NOTE CONF
Uh, explosion in data availability, so much like the F1,
right, Formula One driving, they're putting more and more and
NOTE CONF
more sensors onto the chassis, so then you've just got
this stream of data set coming in.
NOTE CONF
Now without good data data sets, and we call it
data hygiene, which is, you know, structured data, there is
NOTE CONF
no way of training some of what we have to
take for granted right now, right, so people don't start
NOTE CONF
using, I don't know, automatic small keyboards, and then in
the backdrop, Androids and Apple collecting the data stream, they
NOTE CONF
can't really actually make forecasters to work predictions.
Right, or without taking all your images from Google Photos
NOTE CONF
to then be able to train a classifying model that
automatically labels all your photos.
NOTE CONF
So, the explosion and I'm almost at exploitation of data,
give rise to what we have today in some of
NOTE CONF
the most advanced machine learning algorithm um that we use.
But, you know, in order to train better models for
NOTE CONF
the future, we unfortunately have to collect more data.
So self-driving car, for example, if you've ever been to
NOTE CONF
LA and San Francisco, you will actually see way more
taxi driving around, and they will be collecting data, you
NOTE CONF
know, they come in pairs, strangely, just in case one
crashes or something.
NOTE CONF
But the pair of them collect data, maybe there's some
parallax things happening.
NOTE CONF
But basically they, they fit that into the company and
then optimise the driving the driving model every single day.
NOTE CONF
Tesla's doing that with all their cars as well.
Each car has all these camera sensors, they deploy the
NOTE CONF
hardware, you guys actually pay for it, right?
You pay for a Tesla car, it collects the data,
NOTE CONF
it then optimises its own algorithm, sells you a next
better model, right?
NOTE CONF
You call that exploitation, I'm not sure, right, but the
point is that, Someone's collecting data and you need to
NOTE CONF
be cognizant of finding good data to train models with.
Um, yeah, but traditional traditional approaches still matters, right?
NOTE CONF
Um, you know, there's a lot of judgement call in
the model generation.
NOTE CONF
There's a lot of judgement call in seeing that a
certain given model may not be giving you a correct
NOTE CONF
value, right?
Um.
NOTE CONF
So for example, in instructural engineering finite element analysis, it
is understood and reliable, but they may not always provide
NOTE CONF
you with the right of significant value, right?
We know that in fluid dynamics, right?
NOTE CONF
You could have iterations and iterative models, but yet there's
still experimental that needs to be done.
NOTE CONF
The computational doesn't always match with the experimental, right?
And so what actually matters in the real world?
NOTE CONF
The experimental data, right, it's actually what happens in the
real situation that you need to then backfill the compute,
NOTE CONF
right, generating a computational model.
Engineers like yourself, still need to understand traditional approaches, right,
NOTE CONF
so they can better understand if the black box works
properly.
NOTE CONF
Right?
That's the difficult bit for you guys, because some of
NOTE CONF
those compute, right?
Some of this, um, um, black box machine learning model
NOTE CONF
is so complicated that users rely on the final answer.
But you don't really question how it got to the
NOTE CONF
answer, right?
Most of the times, maybe 99.99%. It gets the job
NOTE CONF
done, but what happens in that very final 1 out
of 10,000 times?
NOTE CONF
It doesn't get it, right, so if you look at
space launches, right, you look at what happens if in
NOTE CONF
the future there's an automatic plane that flies from New
York to London, right?
NOTE CONF
500 times it works, but 501 times it doesn't work,
right?
NOTE CONF
I mean that's a pretty low accuracy, um, but you
know, you can imagine how significant that, that is, so
NOTE CONF
understanding some of the traditional approaches still makes a big
difference.
NOTE CONF
Um, in the future, right, which is probably just tomorrow,
by definition, um, hybrid approaches is the best case.
NOTE CONF
So you need to have a bit of understanding on
your own domain, and then knowing what is possible with
NOTE CONF
the machine learning, working with those scientists, and then coming
up with, with, um, actual solution that sort of matches
NOTE CONF
the real world.
And so, um, without going too much into the next
NOTE CONF
section, which we will be talking about, uh, I will
conclude today's class one lecture.
NOTE CONF
Um, just briefly, before we finish off, I will go
and point to the tutorial questions that we have for
NOTE CONF
this week.
So if you haven't already, uh, checked it out.
NOTE CONF
This should all be right here.
Tutorial materials.
NOTE CONF
Right, he's a question set.
So we have a PDF.
NOTE CONF
It'll be good to try and install the packages before
you come into class, um, but if you don't, if
NOTE CONF
you can't figure that out, that's OK.
Um, let's see.
NOTE CONF
So we have some tutorial questions here that you can
look into it, get a basic understanding.
NOTE CONF
So during the two hours of lecture, um, tutorial, because
there's 40 people, you can imagine, right?
NOTE CONF
There's only about like 33 minutes, right?
How, how many minutes you get get to interact with
NOTE CONF
your tutor.
Right?
NOTE CONF
We have about 2 tutors per class, um, So, you
know, you wanna try and get most of this sorted,
NOTE CONF
and then come in and get some confirmation, come and
learn from the tutors, come and learn from your neighbouring
NOTE CONF
students what works, what doesn't work.
Um, they're pretty basic in the very first week.
NOTE CONF
Get, get everything installed, um.
And then we actually have some coding challenges.
NOTE CONF
So using NumPy, how do you get an array.
Now, obviously, to someone's point, right, you can just chuck
NOTE CONF
this into chat GPT, but that's not your learning.
That's it spitting out an information that you can then,
NOTE CONF
um, use.
So make sure that you don't have this illusion of
NOTE CONF
competency.
Try and work it out yourself, try and understand and
NOTE CONF
memorise, right, this is the syntax I need to do
to cut up a data set.
NOTE CONF
You know, to do something, manipulate the data set in
a certain way.
NOTE CONF
Because in the, in the near future we'll be like,
here's a data set, right, traffic conditions.
NOTE CONF
Now go and do something with this to then get
a model.
NOTE CONF
You need to understand the steps.
I think internalising that process is the the actual learning,
NOTE CONF
yeah?
Um, Any questions?
NOTE CONF
Any general questions?
No?
NOTE CONF
Alright, cool.
Uh enjoy your very first week of of class.
NOTE CONF
Alright, thank you.
Hello.
NOTE CONF
This Hm.
OK, but if there's no.
NOTE CONF
There's no final exam in there, no.
Yeah that's reflection will be on you reflecting both your
NOTE CONF
project, the technical work, and also how you and your
team functions for the um for the projects.
NOTE CONF
Hi there, I just got a question with the selection,
you know how you said like so I choose one
NOTE CONF
person or like I pair up with one person and
we get fed up with like another 2.
NOTE CONF
Yeah, in the class, right, because in the class that
have like the person I pair up with have to
NOTE CONF
be in the same tutorial group.
So if you find someone that you know in the
NOTE CONF
tutorial group, like paired up and then you find another
two people.
NOTE CONF
Yeah.
OK, so they have to be in the same picture,
NOTE CONF
so I can't be like someone and another group and
I, and with the tutorial like quizzes, would you say
NOTE CONF
that if we're like confident with the tutorial question that
we do during the week, you can do, you can
NOTE CONF
do most of it, uh, in the, in like outside
of the class.
NOTE CONF
OK, but it will be highly advisable to stay for
majority of the class as well.
NOTE CONF
You know, if you're not working on the tutorial I'm
talking about the quiz the quiz excel in the quiz,
NOTE CONF
do well in the quiz.
There are some practise quiz that we have just to
NOTE CONF
give you categorical.
Thank Uh, Yeah, yeah, I'll put up a few, um.
NOTE CONF
Yeah, I haven't put up with, you know, but there's
a quite a few textbooks that I think would be
NOTE CONF
good reference material.
It doesn't matter directly to the outline of.
NOTE CONF
Yeah.
Sorry.
NOTE CONF
I, I charm works with uh yeah.
I, I personally use PS quotes to do that.
NOTE CONF
You, you know, you install the, the actual new kits,
uh, packaging you get the support you web brow.
NOTE CONF
Um, how do we do the test.
Yeah, this one's um yeah yeah that I mean that
NOTE CONF
unit is really trying to get you to think about
those um logical.
NOTE CONF
I mean I understand it, but it's a certain I
suppose everyone's just chat most simplest thing.
NOTE CONF
And how do you solve the skill up?
Are we gonna be able to as a as a
NOTE CONF
quote you?
I need to double check that it's really.
NOTE CONF
No, it will be, uh, it would be, oh, OK,
so you get like I get the run and show
NOTE CONF
show.
Yes.
NOTE CONF
Yeah, that's what I said.
I mean, that, that's a department, um, the actual file
NOTE CONF
that you're dealing with is is like um.
So each week right you get to look at the,
NOTE CONF
try your own intention setting it up, putting it in
whatever fashion, good documentation, and then by the end of
NOTE CONF
the week we'll show you this is our suggested um
approach to the documentation from so that it may be
NOTE CONF
like after that week or the second week.
And they go, all right, I, I see how this
NOTE CONF
works.
I like that.
NOTE CONF
Um, I know.
I bring it down.
NOTE CONF
And then you said that.
I Yeah.
NOTE CONF
I like So it's not a, it's not a domain
specific mathematics like you know, we're not gonna ask you
NOTE CONF
to integrate the volume of whatever.
And, but if your problem that requires, then maybe it
NOTE CONF
needs to.
Now if you just do a normal calculation, that's the
NOTE CONF
approach you plug in A, B, C, and Alpha and
gamma.
NOTE CONF
I repeat this for all this stuff a little bit
it's, right?
NOTE CONF
It's not.
People replace this whole thing like the training in such
NOTE CONF
a way you go, oh, I know this I know
this is out because someone else has done this.
NOTE CONF
I'm gonna training system in between.
I can now fit in a new set of people
NOTE CONF
without knowing it be some some new output.
So the different way of so different way of solving
NOTE CONF
the problem.
Now if you are then to say, OK, this model
NOTE CONF
actually matched to this equation, yeah, hopefully you have the
same 6 people.
NOTE CONF
Is there a way to that unfortunately is your it's
your.
NOTE CONF
All right, when we'll talk about the competence in terms
of how accurately predict what's the recall.
NOTE CONF
So those things are your are your basically your score
or how well the machine learning.
NOTE CONF
Yeah, so I think yeah, yeah.
2 hours is a bit stretchy, yeah.
NOTE CONF
OK, while we pace it, yeah, all right.
Yeah I OK.
NOTE CONF
Yes she just wanted to all it's Yeah I It
Mhm uh.
NOTE CONF
Yeah, I was walking.
It's in the service so I swear to God I
NOTE CONF
was a.
Right, I got this year.
NOTE CONF
Oh I So Yeah Yeah Yeah.
Um Uh The Um It's less
NOTE CONF